hey guys welcome to my channel today is
another educational video where we're
going to talk about a very important
part of your application recommendation
letters and the goal of this video is to
help you get accepted to a dream
University so if you're interested
please take your notepad to write things
down and listen carefully we're gonna
talk about recommendation letters water
right and them and we're gonna look at
every commendation letter that got a
student into Harvard so it's gonna be a
very important and very informative
video continue watching
I like to divide the application into
four parts part number one your GPA and
test scores 30% part number two your
results your work experience your
volunteer experience 30% 30% your
personal statements motivation letters
and stuff and 10% are your
recommendation letters what does that
mean for you it means that 10% of your
total preparation time should be
dedicated to working with your
accommodation letters first thing to
remember is that different program
required different recommendation
letters so always always check the
admissions section of your University's
program for bachelors programs you would
normally take two recommendation letters
from teachers at school probably from
subjects that are related to your field
of study for masters programs that are
more scientific you would probably have
to academic recommendation letters from
your professor or maybe a manager of
your department maybe some lecturers
that you work closely with and for your
MBA you would probably have two
professional recommendations once you've
looked at your University's page and
realize that you need one academic for
example and one professional
recommendation letter it's time to
decide who's gonna submit those
recommendations I recently been to
Stanford where we talked about the
admissions to MBA programs and what they
told me is that they see so many
recommendation letters from superstars
these three recommendation letters from
kings and queens they see recommendation
letters from managers of top
corporations and they are no longer
impressed by them because what they're
looking for they're looking for a
recommender who really has worked with
you who knows you as a person who can
tell real-life stories anecdotes like
when we think about personal statements
you think about recommendation letters
these two parts of your application are
the only way to show you as a person to
show you through stories and through
your accomplishments so it's very
important to choose a person who you
used to work with who knows you from
inside out there's no point in reaching
out to somebody who's super famous or
who only knew you for like a week and
ask them for a commendation letter
because they won't be able to tell any
stories and
90% chance they're gonna tell you that
they would not be able to submit those
to that recommendation because they
don't really know you which makes total
sense submitting your application so
basically when you fill everything in on
the university's website you click the
apply button and there is a section
called recommendation letters where you
would insert your recommenders email
very important thing to remember I know
some recommenders would have like add
Gmail or at hotmail com that would not
work because this ruins your credibility
because anyone could create at gmail
email address and submit any
recommendation so please ask your
professor or your teacher to find a
corporate email out where your boss like
it should be at your company comm at
your university comm because this adds
credibility to your application and
sometimes recommendation letters that
are coming from at gmail would not be
considered at all so please pay
attention to that so in the
recommendation letters section you put
in your recommenders email and they get
an email from a university that asks
them to submit every commendation letter
now what should be in that
recommendation letter now let's talk
about the content itself if you are
coming from an international university
and English is not a native language at
that country of where you're coming from
you might have the same problem as I
used to have when I talk to my
professors and ask them to submit a
recommendation letter they told me
unfortunately marina we do not speak
English and please ride recommendation
letters yourself we're gonna check the
content and if we're / we're just gonna
submit it that means double work for me
because it's gonna be me who's writing
all the recommendation letters and I
would need to check them and by the way
guys always check your accommodation
letters always check your personal
statements our team has created a
service that's called fluent Express
where you can submit your text and a
native speaker would instantly check it
because it's not just about grammar and
spelling mistakes it's also about the
way you phrase your sentences the way
you use different words sometimes you
would use words that do not make any
sense
so please please very important check
everything on fluent Express or if
you're able to hire like a professional
editor do that but fluent on Express is
a lot cheaper compared to other options
now when you think about the content of
recommendation letter it's always about
anecdotes so what I used to do I used to
sit down with my professors and would go
through stories that I wanted them to
mention I wanted them to highlight that
I'm one of the top performing students
in class and I wanted them to highlight
how it did well at the exams I wanted
them to highlight they I have an active
social life and we sat down and we
talked about you know things that I
contributed to my departments social
life like it sang at the concerts and
organize some events and also wanted
them to highlight my volunteer
experience like the way I helped other
professors they organized different
competitions for students so it's really
your job to sit down with a recommender
and go through things that you want them
to mention because they have so many
students and sometimes they can just
forget things so that's really important
if you're writing a letter yourself then
you know it still makes sense to sit
down with the professor and just discuss
into your own language were you gonna
write about because sometimes they can
add some valuable ideas and after you
have all of that you've put down a
letter together we're gonna look at the
sample so you know how it looks and you
recommended just paste it into the field
that's provided by the University so
it's gonna be an automated link people
no longer send any hard copies so it's
all online really easy but still it's
possible to mess up because sometimes
people forget about deadlines especially
if you're applying in the second
deadline which is like beginning of
January a lot of professors would either
go to a vacation or have a lot of exams
at work at University and they would
just forget about your accommodation
letter and it's your job to make sure
that the application is complete before
you submit it because if they don't
submit recommendations the admissions
committee is not gonna consider your
applications so please be careful about
the deadlines and please start this work
as early as you can
talk to your professors talk to your
teachers talk to your colleagues another
thing sometimes you don't want to tell
your manager that you're quitting you
might be quitting a job your job in a
year or two if you get accepted to your
master
or me a lot of universities understand
that and sometimes they would allow you
to ask for a commendation letter from
your colleague or maybe a client again
managers always referred the CEO of the
company is always preferred but he
cannot be your relative so Dimitri
wasn't a recommender he's known my
husband but he's also my CEO and at the
time when he recommended me we were not
married so was technically all correct
but please make sure that no your
husband or your dad or your mom who's
recommending you they do not allow that
and yeah then you submit recommendations
and you just wait for the answer and if
you're applying to six universities that
means that your recommender would need
to submit the recommendations six times
so you can apply to 20 you can apply to
30 but please make sure your recommender
knows your plans because that means like
30 times they're gonna click copy paste
copy paste and sin sin sin and all of
the universities are different for some
universities one letter should be okay
for other universities like University
of Florida MBA program would ask you
like 7 questions they ask the
recommender 7 questions so it's not just
copy pasting stuff it's actually
creating a recommendation letter for
every single University and it could be
a lot of work ok let's look at a
recommendation letter the godess student
inter Harvard University it's gonna be
professionals programs so as I mentioned
for bachelors program you don't really
ask your teachers like two different
subjects to submit a recommendation so
here we have a guy who's asked his
chemistry teacher to submit a
recommendation I'm gonna give you a link
below so you can check out the
recommendation letter yourself basically
this one is super long normally I would
say it's 250 words this one is low well
I would say it's like 500 words again
make sure you're within the word limit
it starts with to whom it may concern'
which is a very basic phrase for all
formal letters when you don't know who
you're talking to and you probably don't
know who you're talking to from the
admissions committee so to whom it may
concern date and then okay here we go a
very important the first paragraph
mentions that Allan who's a student
we're talking about has taken part in
the chemistry Olympiad taken by
approximately 11,000 students nationwide
and he got a second
session super-important you start with
things you want to highlight because
admissions committee has like maybe five
minutes to look through your application
because they get thousands sometimes
it's longer sometimes it's even shorter
but they scan everything so it's really
important to put important things at
first and so the teacher actually hears
it's a principle of his school he starts
with the Olympian and I think it's
really really smart but then in the
second paragraph he talks about his
academic performance and he says that he
was the topic selling student among the
two sections of AP chemistry class and
he mastered laboratory techniques earned
top score so he highlights that Allen is
a top student and then again he goes
back to anecdotes
he doesn't just mention that at the
student is good the student is talented
he tells that Allen spent an extensive
amount of time studying independently
like self study in order to ensure that
he would cover all of the topics that
our class did not yet study and often
thought additional instructions during
lunch like this is super important he
says he does real stories how Allen
invested his personal time into studying
and this is again a real anecdote that
the admissions committee is looking for
it's not looking for adjectives it's not
looking for you know a compliment it's
looking for real stories and hear what
the principal does he just talks about
all of the stories the next paragraph
talks about Allen's social life so it's
always important to highlight yourself
as a part of the community so it's
important to mention how you function
within your class so here he says that
Allen often explained concepts to
confused classmates actually
participated during discussion asked
questions to ensure he had firm
understanding of concepts so he's
showing that Allen is an active student
not only focusing on himself but also
helping others and he finishes with some
compliments but they are already proven
by actions he exhibits the qualities of
a leader and promising science with
truly love science I love this phrase
and then again he goes back to his
extracurricular activities and he says
that his free time is also connected to
studying and this is why I tell you guys
it's really important to do some
volunteer work it's very important to do
some extra academic stuff travel to
learn languages travel to learn things
because this is something you can always
mention your accommodation letters and
personal statements so they look like
you're doing a lot and you probably
aren't doing a lot Alan was a
participant and a research scientist at
MIT where he has conducted research so
he's mentioning like all of the
different extracurricular scientific
stuff that Alan has done and he finishes
his letter with just some personal
traits and it's really important to show
your personal stuff as well like Alan is
a charismatic individual he's a
respected and liked by faculty and peers
you can actually take some phrases to
your recommendation letters I really
like that he's an individual who's
respected and liked by faculty and peers
and again all of the compliments are
followed by a real anecdote throughout
his high school career Alan often
stopped by my room during lunch to take
my AP chemistry test to review his
general chemistry but he also often
stopped by during lunch or after school
to chat about his latest developments
advances school and other various topics
so again showing how Alan is actually
interested in studying chemistry
he's a balanced individual with a sense
of humor system complements as well and
active participant and community
activities and stuff and he finishes the
letter by formally recommending him he
says that Alan Chen would truly be a
superior addition to the student body at
Harvard so basically he's kind of
selling the student to Harvard
this is an ideal recommendation letter
this is something you can rely on when
writing your own again don't forget the
main rule of recommendation letter any
compliment should be followed by an
anecdote and the accommodation letter
should be provided by a person who knows
you well and who used to work with you a
lot that wasn't for me guys I really
hope that this video was useful and I
really hope that you're now one step
closer to getting into University of
your dreams thank you so much for
watching this video don't forget to use
fluent Express and don't forget that
there's the whole comment section below
this video where you can ask people
about their admissions process where you
can communicate with people who are in
the same situation as you because I know
we can
really lonely going through this process
if you're not subscribed to this channel
hit the red subscribe button and like
this video if you enjoyed the content
and I will see you soon don't forget to
track them in this video to other
applicants